# Image-Based Automated Width Measurement of Surface 

The detection of cracks is an important monitoring task in civil engineering infrastructure de-voted to ensuring durability, structural safety, and integrity. It has been traditionally performed by visual inspection, and the measurement of crack width has been manually obtained with a crack-width comparator gauge (CWCG). Unfortunately, this technique is time-consuming, suffers from subjective judgement, and is error-prone due to the difficulty of ensuring a correct spatial measurement as the CWCG may not be correctly positioned in accordance with the crack orienta-tion. Although algorithms for automatic crack detection have been developed, most of them have specifically focused on solving the segmentation problem through Deep Learning techniques fail-ing to address the underlying problem: crack width evaluation, which is critical for the assess-ment of civil structures. This paper proposes a novel automated method for surface cracking width measurement based on digital image processing techniques. Our proposal consists of three stages: anisotropic smoothing, segmentation, and stabilized central points by k-means adjustment and allows the characterization of both crack width and curvature-related orientation. The method is validated by assessing the surface cracking of fiber-reinforced earthen construction materials. The preliminary results show that the proposal is robust, efficient, and highly accurate at estimating crack width in digital images. The method effectively discards false cracks and de-tects real ones as small as 0.15 mm width regardless of the lighting conditions
Authors: Miguel Carrasco, Gerardo Araya-Letelier, Ramiro Velázquez and Paolo Visconti 

